blog: "We Received A Grant To Port Our Web App To The Internet Computer" (#58)
peterpeterparker/daviddalbusco.com: src/blog/we-received-a-grant-to-port-our-web-app-to-the-internet-computer.md

*****

### Goal

At this stage, our one and only goal is to test the feasibility of the concept: can our platform run and interact** with the Internet Computer? Even if we are really optimistic and everything we read and tried so far seem to validate the hypothesis, the ICP and its infrastructure is still young, it has “only” been officially launched a few weeks ago, on May 7th.

By run* I mean can we host our Progressive Web Apps, our editor, on the Internet Computer and by interact** I mean can it persists and read data, the decks and slides of the users.

*****

### Milestones

To fulfill the proof of concept, and to get our grant 😜, we have defined the following three milestones which must be completed to be able to decide if yes, or no, DeckDeckGo can be migrated to the Internet Computer.

*****

> #### 1 — Offline First & Hosting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Milestone 1 — Offline First & Hosting
```

> Intrinsically and because it is still young too, we won’t be able to perform as much HTTP queries as we currently do, because they might be, at least for the time being, a bit slower than our current solution with Firestore. That’s why, we will have to approach the persistence of the data differently.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand 100%. Do you mean things like "saving on every character input" is not possible?

Author: @nmattia indeed thinking on "saving on every character input". it would be possible but I assume the approach should be a bit different if for example saving a slide would take 5sec instead of 100ms.

After some brainstorming, we decided that the most sustainable solution would be to transition from an online first to an offline first strategy. We are going to convert our editor to work primarily with IndexedDB and, to optionally replicate these data to the cloud, ultimately to the Internet Computer.

This also will have the advantage to let anyone use our editor in standalone mode, for example with a Docker container, and will also make more sense for those getting our application through the [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.deckdeckgo.twa&hl=fr&gl=US) or [Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/deckdeckgo/9pfr8n0r5gpp?activetab=pivot:overviewtab) stores.

Finally, in the same challenging milestone, we also aim to deploy our Progressive Web Apps as a static asset on the Internet Computer.

*****

> #### 2 — Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Milestone 2 — Authentication
```

The Internet Computer introduces a new secure method of cryptographic authentication that eliminates the ability for service providers to steal data, or track movements ([source](https://dfinity.org/technicals/web-authentication-identity)).

In short: no more passwords at all 🤯!

> That is something we are eager to try, just for curiosity reason and because it does sound super cool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is something we are eager to try, because we're super curious about it and because it does sound super cool.
```

Of course, from a project perspective, we do need an authentication workflow to persist the users’ data on the network. That’s the cherry on top of the fun 😉.

*****

> #### 3 — Data Persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Milestone 3 — Data Persistence
```

Unlike the common web solution to query data through HTTP, there is no such function as `fetch` on the Internet Computer.

The Internet Computer is primarily a distributed and decentralized platform for running software. Therefore, to persist data and run programs on it, the applications have to be deployed as WebAssembly modules. These are executed inside of a conceptual computational unit called a software canister.

> Once deployed, end-users can interact with the software canister by accessing the entry point functions you have defined for that canister through a front-end client such as a browser ([source](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/developers-guide/concepts/canisters-code.html)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once deployed, end-users can interact with the software canister by accessing the entry point functions defined for that canister through a front-end client such as a browser ([source](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/developers-guide/concepts/canisters-code.html)).
```

Summarized: We will have to write some WebAssembly functions to get and set our data in the Internet Computer. From our editor developed with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/), we will then interact with these through async callbacks.

*****

### Keep In Touch

To follow our adventure, you can star  and watch our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/deckgo/deckdeckgo) ⭐️, join our [newsletter](https://deckdeckgo.com/en/newsletter) or [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/deckdeckgo/shared_invite/enQtNzM0NjMwOTc3NTI0LTBlNmFhODNhYmRkMWUxZmU4ZTQ2MDJiNjlmYWZiODNjMDU5OGRjYThlZmZjMTc5YmQ3MzUzMDlhMzk0ZDgzMDY) channel. We will share some updates following our progress and, as we often do, some of our learning.

*****

### Conclusion

I play it cool but, I am fully aware it is quite a tremendous opportunity and challenging project. Time to hack!

> To dfinity and beyond.

Reviewer: lol 🚀
